DOCSP-44965-type-validation (#3)
mongodb/docs-mongodb-intellij: source/type-validation.txt

   :depth: 1
   :class: singlecol

Definition
----------

The {+intellij-full+} examines the document fields in queries to ensure
the data types are valid. For example, if you use a document field in an

> equality comparison, or an insert or update of document values, the

Reviewer: [optional suggestion] For brevity, do you think we can say "insert or update **operation**" instead of "insert or update of document values?"

Author: Done

plugin examines the field to ensure the type is valid.

If the type is invalid, the plugin shows a warning that indicates
the type cannot be assigned.

To resolve the warning, change the field value to match the expected
type. If the field is dynamically typed and strict typing rules aren't
applied, you can ignore the invalid type warning.

Example
-------

In the following example Java code snippet, the ``trip_status`` field
type is ``String``, but the ``Filters`` operation attempts to perform
an equality comparison with an ``Integer`` value ``1324324``:

.. code-block:: java
   :copyable: false
   :emphasize-lines: 3

   public List<Document> findCompletedTripsByDriver( String driverId ) {
      return trips.find( Filters.and(
         Filters.eq( fieldName: "trip_status", value: 1324324 )
         Filters.eq( fieldName: "driver_id", driverId )
      )).into( new ArrayList<> () );
   }

Because ``value`` is an ``Integer`` but ``trip_status`` is a ``String``,
the plugin shows a warning about the invalid type:

``"Integer" (type of provided value) can not be assigned to "String"
(type of "trip_status")``

> To resolve the invalid type, change the value to a ``String``.

Reviewer: [optional suggestion] Sorry I didn't think of this earlier on, it might be worth specifying a sample String value that users can replace the integer value with.

Author: Done

   :depth: 1
   :class: singlecol

Definition
----------

> The MongoDB IntelliJ plugin examines the document fields to ensure the

Reviewer: Just a heads up that we have Snooty constants for this to be consistent with the naming. For the first instance on a page, we can use `{+intellij-full+}` and every other instance, we can use `{+intellij-short+}`.

```suggestion
The {+intellij-full+} examines the document fields to ensure the
```

Author: Done

> The MongoDB IntelliJ plugin examines the document fields to ensure the

Reviewer: [suggest] We might also want to be a bit more explicit in specifying that these are document fields in their **queries**.

Author: Done

> data types are valid. For example, if you use a document field that

Reviewer: [suggestion] This second sentence is reading a bit confusing as if the document field itself is what's performing the equality comparison (when it's actually the query). Could we simplify this sentence?

Author: Done

performs an equality comparison, or an insert or update of document
values, the field is examined to ensure the type is valid.

> If the type is invalid, the plugin shows a notification that indicates

Reviewer: [nit] To be consistent with the word choice/UI description that we'll eventually use with the Missing Index Warning and what's used in the private preview draft docs, I think we'll want to refer to these pop-up modals as "warnings" instead of "notifications"

Author: Done

the type cannot be assigned.

> You can change your code to use the required type. Alternatively, if the

Reviewer: [concision/brevity] I think we can remove "Alternatively" at the beginning of the second sentence since the conditional clause provides context on it being a different solution.

Author: Done

> You can change your code to use the required type. Alternatively, if the

Reviewer: [suggestion] Also, I think we can be more explicit by adding a conditional clause at the beginning of the first sentence. Maybe something like: 

"To resolve the warning, change the field value to match the expected type."

Author: Done

field is dynamically typed and strict typing rules aren't applied, you
can ignore the invalid type notification.

> Examples

Reviewer: [nit] Since we're only showing one example, we might want to modify the heading here to be singular.

Author: Done

--------

In the following example Java code snippet, the ``trip_status`` field

> type is ``String`` but the ``Filters`` operation performs equality

Reviewer: missing punctuation + wording clarification — I think we want to be clear that an equality check isn't being run here due to the mismatched type.
```suggestion
type is ``String``, but the ``Filters`` operation attempts to perform an equality
```

Author: Done

comparison with the ``Integer`` value ``1324324``:

> .. code-block:: java

Reviewer: [praise] Thanks for adding this in with the highlight. Looks great and is super clear.

Author: Cheers

   :copyable: false
   :emphasize-lines: 3

>    public List<Document> findCompleted TripsByDriver( String driverId ) {

Reviewer: [nit] looks like a space made it in here by accident!
```suggestion
   public List<Document> findCompletedTripsByDriver( String driverId ) {
```

Author: Fixed

      return trips.find( Filters.and(
         Filters.eq( fieldName: "trip_status", value: 1324324 )
         Filters.eq( fieldName: "driver_id", driverId )
      )).into( new ArrayList<> () );
   }

> Because ``value`` is an ``Integer`` but a ``String`` is required, the

Reviewer: [question] Can we reword this first half of the sentence to be in a more active voice? Maybe something along the lines of: 

"Since the application specifies ``Integer`` value where it expects a ``String``, the plugin..."

Author: Adjusted slightly. But typically avoid "since" because it has a temporal time meaning also. "Since 1845, ..." :)

Reviewer: Noted! Thanks for the reminder on that.

> Because ``value`` is an ``Integer`` but ``trip_status`` is a ``String``,

Reviewer 2: I would suggest specifying clearly that trip_status is a String in MongoDB, and this is inferred from a sample of documents.

Author: Done

> plugin shows a notification about the invalid type:

Reviewer: [nit] same comment here about the wording nit regarding "warning" vs. "notification"

Author: Fixed

> .. code-block:: java

Reviewer: [question] Do you think we can just monospace this warning text instead of putting it in a Java codeblock? Mainly asking this because of the text styling + necessity for a codeblock in this case.

Author: Will do.

   :copyable: false
   
   "Integer" (type of provided value) can not be assigned to
   "String" (type of "trip_status")

> To resolve the invalid type, you can change the value to a ``String``.

Reviewer: [brevity] 
```suggestion
To resolve the invalid type, change the value to a ``String``.
```

Author: Done

Learn More
----------

> :ref:`intellij-connect`

Reviewer: [suggestion] It might also be worthwhile linking the other two features, autocorrect and missing index warning, here.

Author: Will do
